# CS-330-T3336-Comp-Graphic-and-Visualization

Computational Graphics and Visualization helped me develop design and development methods to utilize in my future career and education. For this 3D Scene project, we used OpenGL to create a scene based on an image. The image I selected was a set of some of my items. I had to analyze it to decide how I should approach development. This included looking at the list of shapes we could use to create our objects planes, tori, cylinders, cubes, pyramids, and spheres. By breaking down what shapes could be used for an object, I could design my approach. For example, the keychain in my project had to be made up of both cylinders and a pyramid. This, along with gaining an idea of what textures and lighting I would use, consisted of my design for the scene. Taking the time to design a program is crucial to understanding clearly what needs to be done when you start development. I will continue to analyze my projects in the future before development as it will save me time in the long run. 

This scene was developed over multiple weeks. Each week a new topic was introduced and integrated within the scene. These topics include modeling, lighting, textures, etc. Integrating something new into a project could be difficult. It was necessary to have an organized structure for me as the developer to understand what I am looking for in my project. It was roughly organized in this order global variable declaration, lighting, vertices, textures, shape locations, texture mapping, drawing, and camera navigation. Using OpenGL, there ended up being a hefty amount of code to sift through. Working with a program like this, I learned how important it is to maintain good comments and organization. This is a standard I will continue to maintain in the future, especially as I start to work with larger programs. 

Computation graphics and visualization gave me a solid understanding of how graphics are developed. I have used 3D modeling software in the past, but this course gave me insight into how it looks on the back end. This knowledge is helpful to know as I continue to work on graphics in the future. Overall, I would say that this course gave me the biggest lesson in patience. Learning and developing with OpenGL was a difficult but rewarding process. Many of the functionalities within my scene each took many hours to get working as expected. This is the harsh reality for a lot of projects. Not everything is an easy process, but to learn something new is a beautiful opportunity. I will continue to keep this mindset as I know this is far from the last time I will struggle during development.
